Welcome back to our custom code example for linear regression with Python and Sparke what we're going
to do is walk through a more realistic example of linear regression.
We saw the basic workflow using documentation example but let's examine some e-commerce customer data
for companies web site and a mobile app.
The main idea is using various features we're going to try to predict it customers total expenditure
which is just a continuous money value and we'll also discuss how to convert realistic data into a format
accepted by sparks and Madlib that documentation example already had formatted that way.
Realistically you're not going to have it in that format so we'll show you how to convert it into the
spark and live format the relevant notebook for this lecture is called linear regression code along.
Let's get started going to hop over to my browser with a new notebook with access to the data.
All right let's get started.
First we need to do is say from Paice spark thought sequel import a spark session and will actually
create that spark session now.
Hopefully by now you're kind of used to doing this.
We just create an example and then get or create shift enter or Spark's ready to go and we're going
to do is right off the top say from Paice sparked the M-L that regression in poor linear regression
won't ease this right away but we will use it in just a little bit.
Now let's get our data.
So our data is going to be Sparke read that CXXVIII.
And I'm going to be using the e-commerce underscore customers that see every file that's available to
you in the notes under the linear regression folder.
I also say in first schema is equal to true.
And I'm also going to say that the header is true.
And then once we've done that may take a little bit of time to read the pinning how fast your computer
is what I want to do is just print the schema so we can explore the data just a little bit and I can
see it has an email which has a string and address which is also a string some sort of avatar.
We'll see if that isn't a second average session length that's a number.
Time on app also number time on the Web site also number length of the memberships how much time has
this customer been a member.
And then your yearly amount spent on the service for the site.
And that's the kind of variable that we're going to be trying to predict now for your own custom examples
you're going to have to clarify what you need predicts.
Right now I'm just telling you that this is the actual value we're trying to predict.
So let's show that it actually looks like if I just hit show it's probably going to be too zoomed in
for us to kind of get a good idea.
So it's a little messy since that what I'm going to do is just show you head of one so we can see what
the value actually looks like.
And it's actually Same for will say zero.
That's the actual role and I'll say for item in this print item.
All right so here we can see the actual value.
So this is the e-mail value.
We can see here that there is actually an address as well.
So Frank Tunnell whatever.
Then there is the avatar and the avatar is actually just a color.
So if I take a look at another example such as here had two loops section I wanted to one you can see
dark green.
So there just various colors.
And then we have actual numeric values for these things right here.
The average session length time spent on the app time spent on the Web site the length of the membership
so that's in years and then yearly amounts spent.
So this is all fake data.
I generated this myself so don't worry.
These aren't real e-mails or anything.
Well hopefully they aren't real.
OK.
So moving along we're going to set up the data frame for machine learning.
And this is one of the most important features of using and understanding how to use M-L Madlib especially
of python and SPARC.
So this is something you're really going to want to get down.
The first thing you have to do is to import the vector assembler and vectors.
So I'll say from Paice barked M-L Lynn Ouch import vector's.
Now we don't actually use this directly but often in the documentation you see imported anyways.
So I always like to do it just in case it's a requirement.
So I'll say from Paice sparked the MLV up feature and this is where we're actually going to be using
something.
We're going to say vector assembler.
All right.
So this is what we need to do.
We need to convert all the numerical columns that are going to be using won't work with the actual categorical
columns who won't work with the address or the email or this avatar.
We'll see how to work with those later on and future examples.
Right now I just care about this numerical data.
So I want to grab this numerical data as the features and I want to grab this as the label to predict.
So let's continue on and show you how to use vector assembler.
So again if I say data columns and show the column names that I want the only things I'm interested
in are the average session length the time on the app time on the Web site.
The length of the membership and this yearly amount spent that's going to be in my label column.
So let's continue on by creating an assembler object.
So we'll call it assembler.
You can really call it whatever you want but it's going to be a vector assembler and it takes in the
following arguments whoops takes in input calls and input calls is a list of strings of the actual columns
you want to take in.
So in this case this is going to be all our feature columns.
So we say input columns.
Now we can just copy and paste that here.
So we have average session length time on App time on the Web site length of membership and if you can
format this looks a little nicer than what I have here.
So it's kind of put this all in one line.
I'm zoomed in which is why it looks a little strange here.
But there we go.
And now after this we're going to do is say OK so impot calls.
That's one of the arguments.
The other argument we're going to be doing is this is the actual output column so output call is equal
to features or whatever you want to call.
But basically the idea behind vector assembler is I can zoom out just a little bit so we can see the
whole thing is you have a list of input columns and those are the input columns you want to be the features
and then you have an output column that's just a single feature.
So it's going to grab all these columns and turn them into a single vector.
So we have our assembler there which is basically just saying OK this is what to expect.
The next thing I want to do is actually transform the data so I create an object called output and this
will be that assembler object that it just made and I will call the transform method and I pass in my
original data and I'm passing it all my data.
I haven't done the train test split yet that's important.
So I'm passing it all my data and if I may take a look at what the print schema of my output I have
everything that I used to have and I have this new features column to get a better idea of what the
actual features Roe looks like.
Let's select it.
So I'm going to say output had one and I can see here that this features object is a dense vector consisting
of zoom in so little bit here.
Of the values that I input.
So we can see here we have essentially looks like a vector or array and it's a combination of all these
numerical values that I wanted.
Perfect.
That's exactly what we want and that's the kind of format that SPARC is going to be expecting for linear
regression or really any machine learning algorithm.
So now the next step of what I want to do is select my final data.
You don't actually have to do this but I recommend that cause it kind of tightens everything.
So I'll say.
Final data is output select.
And all I care about is that features column that contains all the features I want and then the yearly
amount spent column.
All right so I have my final data and if I show my final data I can see yours that features column and
then what is essentially my labels column yearly amounts spent.
So now it's split this up into a train test split so say training data Khama test data.
So using kind of tuple impacting here and I'll say my final data Colerain them split on it and by convention
a 70 30 split is really common 60:40 is also really common as well as 80:20 depending on what kind of
data you have how easy it is to train on that data.
There's no real right answer on what you should do a split.
But if you just want to kind of choose a default split 17:30 is a pretty good choice.
So that's what we're going to do.
Who do train test and or want to do is see and confirm that everything actually looks good.
So it's kind of show the training data co-writes we have 357 in our training data and now we're going
to do is copy and test.
Place this for the test data.
All right.
And we have 1 4 3 in our test data.
Are trained train split worked perfectly.
Now create our linear regression model.
So I'm going to create an object called L-R and this is going to be my linear regression model.
And remember if you look at linear regression model we define the features column the label column and
the prediction column The defaults are fine to use as long as you match up with the defaults.
Now our label column isn't called label.
Instead it's called the yearly amount spent.
So let's actually adjust this by saying the label column is going to be called yearly amount spent.
If we come back up here to when we're looking or features call column that is the same name as the default
value.
So that's totally okay believe that the same.
So we have yearly amount spent as our label column.
And then what I'm going to do is create a linear regression model and I'm just going to zoom in here.
All I'm going to do is say L.R. fit and I'm going to fit to my training data so we'll fit your training
data let that run again depending on what kind of computer we have.
It may take a little bit of time and outside to see how well our model actually performed.
So hard to do that.
We need to evaluate it again some test data.
So create test results is equal to L.R. model evaluated or evaluate on the test data.
So now I have these test results and if I take a look at the test results and their residuals I can
show these residuals and the residuals.
It's just a difference between the predictive value and the actual label from the test data.
So let's scroll down here.
Continue on and get some of those regression evaluation metrics that we discussed earlier.
Well I'm going to do that just by calling test results.
And then what I can do is call the root mean squared error.
So that's my root mean squared error.
And then we can also call from test results.
You can call our squared and that's 0.9.
So this kind of indicates that we're explaining a lot of the variance.
This is a very good model just from the root mean squared error and the residuals because if you look
at the actual original data.
So if you look at final data describe that show lips describes our show as we begin to finish up this
lecture.
There's two more things I want to do.
One is to actually go over these results this root mean squared error square compared to that final
data and the second thing I want to do is just quickly review how you could deploy this model on some
totally unlabeled data.
So not just test data but only data that you have features for.
So let's quickly review what's going on here.
This number the root mean squared error.
Remember that's the difference between your test value that true value versus the predictive value.
So you take that difference you square it which in turn punishes larger errors and to turn it back into
the same units in this case yearly amount spent let's say dollar spent.
We take the square root of that whole thing.
So I can see that my root mean squared error is around 10 and a half dollars by itself that number is
pretty meaningless.
We have to do is compare it to the actual column value that actual label you're trying to predict in
this case it's yearly amounts spent and the average yearly amount spent is $500 with a standard deviation
of $80 minimum was 2 5 6 maximum was 7 6 5.
So I can see here in comparison being off on that root mean squared error by 10 and a half dollars versus
the actual average being $500 and the standard deviation being $80 is actually pretty darn good to confirm
that I have a good fitting model I can also check out the R-squared value where the R-squared value
is saying I am my model explains 98 percent of the variance in the data.
That's also very good.
Now having such a good root mean squared error and also having such a good R-squared value to kind of
Ping's something in the back of your mind saying okay I should double check this data double check the
way I fit in my model make sure that X accidentally fit your model and the training data.
And then also evaluate your model and training data.
That's kind of a common mistake.
However you can rest assured here because I artificially created this data it was designed to have a
very good fit by a linear regression model you can expect more advanced or more complex models to have
a better fit but for something as simple as linear regression you should definitely double check if
you get results this good on a real data set.
OK.
So that was revealing the results.
Let me just quickly review how you would then essentially deploy this model on some data.
You only had the features for.
So let's say we have some customers where we only have their features but we don't know how much they
are actually going to spend in a year to mimic that.
What I'm going to do is say I have some unlabeled data and that's going to be equal to my test data.
However I'm only going to select the features column from it.
So if I look at my own label data I can see only has features it doesn't actually have the yearly amount
spent.
So we can treat this as some new incoming data that we want to deploy my model on.
So scroll down here and I'm going to say grab my model and I will transform that unlabeled data and
then set that equal to predictions and what predictions is as a reminder it is a data frame where it
shows the incoming features and the predicted yearly amount spent.
So for this first customer with this specific feature or this vector of features I predict in a year
they will spend $330 for the second customer.
I predict they'll spend this much etc. and if a check against test data which is exactly what we did
up here when we said evaluate Kree-Skrull appear when we said evaluate what this ends up doing is it
has that residual information that root mean squared error information et cetera all from comparing
that prediction versus what it knew to be the true value.
All right I hope you enjoy that discussion and I hope it gave you a good idea of how you can apply these
techniques to a more realistic looking dataset.
Coming up next is going to be a consulting project.
So we'll start out by giving you a little bit of background on the project itself with the data and
what the expected output is.
Thanks and I'll see at the next lecture.